# Jordan Sneaker Recognition Application 
## By Justin Woo

The Jordan sneaker recognition application is a machine learning-based web application that predicts the model of a Jordan sneaker based on an image uploaded by the user. The project uses a pre-trained convolutional neural network model to classify the images into one of 14 Jordan sneaker models.

The application has a simple web interface that allows the user to upload an image of a Jordan sneaker and see the predicted model with a confidence score.

## Code Files Description
### app.py

app.py contains the Flask web application that serves the Jordan sneaker recognition project. This file is responsible for handling the incoming requests and returning the predicted results.

### preprocessing_and_training.py
preprocessing_and_training.py contains the machine learning model and code for predicting the model of the Jordan sneaker. It uses the FastAI library to train a convolutional neural network on a dataset of 14 Jordan sneaker models. 

### unittest.py
unittest.py contains the unit and integration tests for the Jordan sneaker recognition project. It uses the built-in Python unittest library to define and run the tests. The tests include testing various different types of images (product photos, photos taken from phone, and on-foot pictures) and testing the image verification functions to ensure it is properly filtering images that are valid or not.

## Additional Files Description:
### jordan_classifier.pkl
Serialized version of a trained image classification model, specifically a fastai Learner object, that was generated by the train_model function. This model was trained to classify images of Jordan sneakers based on their design and features, and can be used to make predictions on new images. 

To create a new model, just run preprocessing_and_training.py and the code will produce a file that overwrites the existing jordan_classifier.pkl

### index.html (in 'templates' folder)
index.html is the HTML file for the front-end of the web application.

### 'uploads' folder
The 'uploads' folder is a directory that stores images uploaded from the frontend of the Jordan Sneaker Recognition web application. These images are fed into the model for prediction.

### 'jordans' folder
The jordans folder is a directory that contains the training images used to train the Jordan sneaker recognition model. These images were downloaded using the download_training_data() function in the preprocessing_and_training.py file, which scrapes the Google Images website for images of Jordan sneakers and saves them to subfolders organized by sneaker model.

Each subfolder within the jordans folder represents a different Jordan sneaker model and contains a collection of images of that particular sneaker from various angles and perspectives. These images are used to train the model to recognize different Jordan sneaker models.

To create new training data, just run preprocessing_and_training.py and the code will overwrite the existing images 

## Usage

1. Clone the repository from GitHub to your local machine.
2. Run preprocessing_and_training.py to collect the training data and then preprocess these images and train the image recognition model. This will save the model as jordan_classifier.pkl.
3. Run app.py to start the Flask application.
4. In your web browser, go to http://localhost:5000/.
5. Click the "Choose File" button to select an image of a Jordan sneaker from the uploads folder.
6. Click the "Predict" button to run the model on the selected image
7. Wait for the application to process the image and predict the type of Jordan sneaker. The application will display the predicted type of Jordan sneaker and the confidence percentage of the prediction.
8. You can repeat steps 6-9 with other images of Jordan sneakers.
9. When finished, you can stop the Flask application by pressing Ctrl+C in the terminal where the application is running.


